# natestamm.com



My code base for my personal domain name, using my name or similar project term, for my online portfolio. Please read my DISCLAIMER on this repo.

I will summarize here: Extensibility is defined currently by google with a top result describing an "architecture" that is "designed to accommodate changes". Github provides me with this in it's most core form. This is why I have chosen to load a number of websites' code bases here, and online, as a primary benefit. Versioning and backing up for these web sites is, as opposed to an application, or a code snippet, a must. I am unconcerned with the morality in using this account for those purposes, as in those cases I am the one making commits and using prior or updated versions, mostly. In this regard it is important for me to have an extensible code base, but more important for my storage of static web content and designs to be kept structurally sound in at least one way that makes use of the cloud and removes the possibility of inactivity as being any cause of lost data. What that means is, Github is a great way to store and reference code! I normally use my README files here as an FAQ but since this website is stored here for structure and cloud backup primarily I find no reason to explore the whys of any part of it's code base unless frequently asked or mentioned.

And so my DISCLAIMER is in place to reference how I license this web site, this README serves to reference why, And I am glad the structure for my "final" design is kept in place using the most popular in versioning software. I would gather if you've read this far you may wish to know a little more about the files stored. And so I can think of only one metric that could always be used to refer to a static, dynamic, web site or application in it's entirety or any change, update, modification, or code fix contained, and that is the time required. In about half of those examples the time required to fix and commit an update or a fix would be self serving. So I provide here an estimation of the time required for development or in theming of any domain theme being referenced.

I have about (2) hours into content updates and minor theme related changes and tweaks to the original HTML5UP layout.

I was really impressed when I found this layout. Not just the design but the colors and the overall feel were exactly what I was going for. I will always give props to HTML5UP for making us FEEL their designs. The entirety of the layout taking on the look of a professional "white collar" button up shirt and tie design also was, quite clever. Since this layout was designed with responsive principles in mind and really tickled my fancy I decided to use it with only minor changes. Most of the updates I've made are content related. My original "new" portfolio was a haphazard carousel (literally) of images and project screen shots, an introduction of who I was really, more than just my web development activities being referenced, but I needed more than just that carousel and found myself with little time to bang out an original design. I was also actually juggling preference of js frame works between boostrap and skele js heavily even in client projects and this is not so much of a concern for me any more.  So using the HTML5UP original and trendy design with basic content updates seemed to me the a best route. I still laugh over the shirt and tie look, what a great theme for a resume or introductory site. If I try to explain much more about this choice I might risk making this commentary sound like an excuse, but the truth is I was so inundated with work at the time that I found myself taking time management courses at Penn State. HTML5UP simply came at the right time for me during the death throws of 4.01 transitional and advent of HTML5.


Because of this and how WYSIWYG editors were progressing in general leading to the advent of Wix, I am actually now very glad I used a pre fabricated design.


There is a part of me that wants to expand on this turn of events in light of nodejs, but it would not be appropriate here.. Although it was an experience.



I am also a big albeit quiet fan of Skeleton JS. At the time I did and still do think of it as a very extensible library, very efficient and streamlined, and it makes for a wonderful grid system. In the future however I see taking a similar approach using Bootstrap with some more interactive icons. I'm not lost on the irony of using a free repository and theme for my online portfolio, but in truth I wanted the website to first reflect the miriad of facets of my professional self, not just web development. Because I really consider myself more of a well rounded businessperson or marketing entrepreneur at heart. In the future making use of content areas and icons with respect to mobile browsers I think could be done better using Bootstrap and jquery UI. Possibly all done in nodejs, But regardless I will always give props to HTML5UP for the idea and to recognize the beautiful work they have provided their end users. This theme was, upon it's release, fairly cutting edge with respect to the software libraries and techniques accepted by a majority of web browsers. Hopefully I will be able to do dive into such changes with a focus on the shirt and tie look soon, may be, a Hawaiian shirt. I am not entirely sure yet. I have been using the current theme happily with references to HTML5UP for the past five years, 2013 through 2018. Here it is stored for structural reference as my other domains per repo.



Since uploading my first major releases to this layout, using an HTML5UP theme, I have been developing a reversioned application built using cakephp which can accept many other layouts and templates. This application was intended to be a very streamlined and efficient cakephp alpha reversion that is php5 and php7 friendly, and can accept any template structure, especially from sources like HTML5UP and also from major theme repositories like Wordpress.org, Drupal's free theme repos, as well as others making use of differing javascript frame works and the like. Unfortunately a very good thing happened. I realized that if I wanted to have software I wanted to use myself, AND possibly market, at leaset for client projects, that I wanted to be able to edit said themes and layouts in context, using a fluidic grid system. This very positive realization, barring the marriage of nodejs is quite possibly the holy grail for web development for any one. And so while I am not loading the application end showcasing a working reversioned cakephp alpha with various major CMS themes and templates HERE, I am referencing it, and the code base will be likely forked here from the proper repository which I must separate from my portfolio domain due to purpose, focus, audience, and intent.

In short, I would like to have a reference to that application and show a templating system working with many different themes, but it wouldn't be approp.


If Github is as robust as I have found it to be so far, forking that application here should be easy, and I can talk more about what it can do it exists rendering my document root, templating major CMS themes of various builds using various frame works, and show off the basic pages and themes others have worked hard on being used in content driven and ecommerce situations within the context of this domain (natestamm dot com) and keep the commentary and reference material FOR that application separate within it's own Github repository.
